Server admin guide re-structure (#877)
jamulussoftware/jamulussoftware.github.io: wiki/en/Running-a-Server.md

</details>

## Do I need to run a Server?

> **No**. You can use the Servers listed by the built in Directories and use Jamulus without running a Server yourself. Or you can use a third party hosting service such as [melomax](https://melomax.live/jamulus-hosting/) or [KOORD](https://koord.live/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**No**. You don't need to run a Server. You can use the Servers listed by the built-in Directories and use Jamulus without running a Server yourself. You can also use an unlisted server if you know its internet address. Or you can use a third party hosting service such as [melomax](https://melomax.live/jamulus-hosting/) or [KOORD](https://koord.live/). There's probably a Server nearby that you and your friends can use at low enough latency for most needs.
```

> If you just want an undisturbed session, use the soloing technique described on the [Tips and Tricks page](Tips-Tricks-More#have-an-undisturbed-session-on-any-server). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a public server might introduce you to strangers. If you want an undisturbed session, you can use the soloing technique described on the [Tips and Tricks page](Tips-Tricks-More#have-an-undisturbed-session-on-any-server). You won't hear strangers who connect to the Server, but they can hear you if they wish.
```

> Consider using a cloud host, not your home internet connection, to get better ping times if you're having problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some internet connections don't run a Server well. A Server running on your home internet connection might struggle with a group larger than 3 or 4 participants. As an alternative, a cloud host near you can handle larger groups more reliably.
```

I've removed the claim about ping times, and instead talk about reliability and scaling. Yeah?

Reviewer: Are some home connections just DOA with regard to running a Server? Maybe so...

Author: This "Do I need to run a Server?" section has been re-written more than almost any other part of the website. The last time we hacked at it was down to somebody saying that you'd getting better pings on the cloud. Also that we suspected people were going to this guide becuase they thought it was was the only way of ensuring an undisturbed session. BTW we shouldn't start messing with sizing statements (there's a whole separate page for that).

Tempted to say if you want to re-do this intro again, then that's for a sparate PR. This'll never get merged otherwise.

Reviewer: Current line 38 is goofy.

Author: I'd be OK with removing the "Consider using a cloud host" bit on the ground that we shouldn't start implying that you can't host on a domestic broadband, or that there's some fixed limits to that. The line was added after a particularly vocal person demanded we point out that Jamulus would do better on dedicated hosting (which **might** be true in **most** cases).

Reviewer: You can't always host on a domestic broadband, and there can be limits.

Author: That applies to all hosting though. We don't know anything about their domestic connectivity or hardware (we have people in Korea on synchronous gigabit speed home connections for example). So essentially saying, "Who knows whether you can do what you want on your home broadband?" isn't very helpful :-)

### General notes

* Any Server should have at least 1.6GHz CPU frequency and 1GB RAM
* Running a Server may require you to adjust any firewalls running on or outside of your machine or cloud host.

> * Running an [Unregistered Server](Unregistered-Servers) at home will require you to port forward on your router. This should not be necessary when running a Registered Server, most cases, but it's advisable to do so because some networks may not work properly with Jamulus in its default mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Running an [Unregistered Server](Unregistered-Servers) at home will require you to port forward on your router. This should not be necessary when running a Registered Server, in most cases, but it's advisable to do so because some networks may not work properly with Jamulus in its default mode.
```

* Jamulus only has limited IPv6 support which needs to be enabled with a command line argument on the Client and Server. (There are plans to expand IPv6 support.)

---

## Installation

> Most people run Jamulus on a 3rd party/cloud host as a "pure" Server (also known as "headless") on **hardware without audio** running Linux. You can also run a Server in a [**desktop environment**](#servers-on-the-desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most people run Jamulus on a 3rd party/cloud host as a "headless" Server (no video display or keyboard) on **hardware without audio** running Linux. You can also run a Server in a [**desktop environment**](#servers-on-the-desktop).
```

I think "pure" server is most typically called headless.

> To run a headless server on Linux, the following steps assume you are familiar with the command line and Debian/Ubuntu or similar distribution using systemd. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a headless server on Linux, the following steps assume you are familiar with the command line and Debian/Ubuntu or similar distribution that uses systemd. 
```

1. Download the [latest headless (amd64) .deb file]({{ site.download_root_link }}{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless }}) (or for Raspberry Pi etc. as above)
1. Make sure you have a current list of standard packages: `sudo apt update`
1. Install the Jamulus package for your architecture, for example: 

	`sudo apt install ./{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless }}`

1. Enable the headless Server process: 

	`sudo systemctl enable jamulus-headless`

1. Add your desired [command line options](Running-a-Server#configuration) to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file (by default you will be running an Unregistered Server):

	`sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless`

1. Reload the systemd files and restart the headless Server:

	`sudo systemctl daemon-reload && systemctl restart jamulus-headless` 

> _To upgrade your Server, just repeat the steps above._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_To upgrade your Server, just repeat the steps above._

_To amend your Server configuration, just repeat the last two steps above._
```

---

## Server Types

Servers can be run in one of three modes (either at home or on a 3rd party host), depending on your needs.

### 1. Unregistered

> This is the default when starting a Server for the first time. Unregistered Servers are not listed by Directories, so only musicians who know your Server's address to will be able to connect to it. This is useful because Jamulus does not let you control who can connect to a Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the default when starting a Server for the first time. Unregistered Servers are not listed by Directories, so only musicians who know your Server's address can connect to it. 
```

I think we're implying this open access design already.

**For information about running an Unregistered Server [see this guide](Unregistered-Servers).**

<figure>
	<img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/diagram-unreg-server.inc %}" loading="lazy" alt="Diagram of connections between Clients within a Jamulus Unregistered Server">
</figure>

### 2. Registered

> In this mode your Server will be listed in a Directory. Jamulus has a list of built-in Directories that Clients can connect to, and if you register your Server with one of these, anyone can then discover and connect to it. You can also have your Server listed on a Custom Directory (see below), if that better meets your requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this mode your Server will be included in the server list supplied by a Directory. Jamulus has a list of built-in Directories that Clients can know, and if you register your Server with one of these, anyone can then discover and connect to it.

You can also have your Server listed by a Custom Directory (see below), if that better meets your requirements.  Clients can then only see your Server if they also know the Custom Directory.
```

> In this mode your Server will be listed in a Directory. Jamulus has a list of built-in Directories that Clients can connect to, and if you register your Server with one of these, anyone can then discover and connect to it. You can also have your Server listed on a Custom Directory (see below), if that better meets your requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode your Server will be listed in the server list supplied by a Directory. Jamulus has a list of built-in Directories that Clients can connect to, and if you register your Server with one of these, anyone can then discover and connect to it.

You can instead list your Server on a Custom Directory. Clients must enter the Custom Directory address to see the Servers listed on that Directory.
```

> Note that Directories can only register up to 150 Servers. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server becuase the Directory is full, you can try registering on another. For a list of all public Directories and the Servers on them, see [explorer.jamulus.io](https://explorer.jamulus.io).

Reviewer 2: Spell check!
```suggestion
Note that only 150 Servers can register with any Directory. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server because the Directory is full, you can try registering on another. For a list of all public Directories and the Servers on them, see [explorer.jamulus.io](https://explorer.jamulus.io).
```
I'd rather say "run the client with --showallservers", as Jamulus Explorer shows the worldjam.vip directory and that's technically not _public_, unlike what the above paragraph states.

Author: Oh I thought we wanted to keep --showallservers undocumented to avoid people getting confused by it? Maybe just omit that last line then?

Reviewer 2: Yeah.

<figure>
	<img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/diagram-reg-server.inc %}" loading="lazy" alt="Diagram of connections between Clients within a Jamulus Registered Server">
</figure>

### 3. Directory

If you want to run a number of Servers, possibly also behind a firewall or on a LAN, you may want to run your Server as a Directory. Examples include online events, music associations, sectional rehearsals or music lessons for schools.

For information, [see the Directories guide](Directories).

---

## Configuration options

Depending on your operating system and how you are running the server, you can set Server options and make them persistent between reloads as follows:

**Linux headless mode** (Debian/Ubuntu using systemd) 

> Add your desired command line options to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file by running `sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless`

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth a reference back to the install section -- as that mentions about restarting after editing.  Unless `edit` does that for you... (I don't use it... 😀)

Author: Good point will have a look.

**GUI mode** (all platforms)

Any settings made using the graphical interface will be stored in the `Jamulusserver.ini` file (do not attempt to edit this file by hand). However, some options are not available via the GUI and need to be set via the command line. For more information, see [Servers on the desktop](#servers-on-the-desktop)

---

### Server mode-related options

> ##### `-e or --directoryserver` 

Reviewer 2: Must, at some point, get changed to say `--directory`... and consign `--directoryserver` to be another deprecated option...

Required for a [Registered Server](Running-a-Server#2-registered). Also required to run Jamulus as a [Directory](Directories). 

This option takes the format:

> `--directoryserver genreServer:port`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--directoryserver hostname:port` where `hostname` is the Genre Directory host name and `port` is its port number.
```

> To register with one of the Directories built into the Jamulus Client, replace `genreServer:port` with one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To register with one of the Directories built into the Jamulus Client, replace `hostname:port` with one of the following options:
```

> | Genre |   Server Address           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Genre |   `hostname:port`  |
```

Consider using a cloud host, not your home internet connection, to get better ping times if you're having problems.

### General notes

* Any Server should have at least 1.6GHz CPU frequency and 1GB RAM
* Running a Server may require you to adjust any firewalls running on or outside of your machine or cloud host.

> * Running an [Unregistered Server](Unregistered-Servers) at home will require you to port forward on your router. This should not be necessary when running a Registered Server, in most cases, but it's advisable to do so because some networks may not work properly with Jamulus in its default mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must set up port forwarding on your router to run an [Unregistered Server](Unregistered-Servers) at home. This should not be necessary when running a Registered Server in most cases. However, some home networks can require port forwarding for a Registered Server.
```

How common is it for a registered server on a home network to require port forwarding?

Author: Not very common, but we have had reports of people solving problems on Registered servers by port forwarding.

> * Jamulus only has limited IPv6 support which needs to be enabled with a command line argument on the Client and Server. (There are plans to expand IPv6 support.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Jamulus offers limited IPv6 support that you can turn on for a Client or Server from the command line.
```

---

## Installation

Most people run Jamulus on a 3rd party/cloud host as a "headless" Server (no video display or keyboard) on **hardware without audio** running Linux. You can also run a Server in a [**desktop environment**](#servers-on-the-desktop).

To run a headless server on Linux, the following steps assume you are familiar with the command line and Debian/Ubuntu or similar distribution that uses systemd. 

> If you want to run a Server on a **Raspberry Pi** (or a different armhf/arm64 debian-based device), you will need to download the [latest armhf .deb file]({{ site.download_root_link }}{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless-armhf }}) or [latest arm64 .deb file]({{ site.download_root_link }}{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless-arm64 }}) depending on your CPU - not the default `amd64` ones for use on Intel/AMD machines.

Reviewer: I downloaded arm64 for the first time yesterday, to use on an Ubuntu 22 platform. It seems like Ubuntu 22 can run as arm64 or amd64. Does this sound like only Raspi would use arm64? I suspect we should use a table with three entries to explain the three platforms, rather than inlining for these links. (I admit that I still don't know how to render this PR to review the built site. )

Author: The majority of people looking at this page would just want the standard amd64. The alternative download links are presented for the minority who will know what they need. The same principle of not confusing/annoying the majority for the sake of the minority applies on the macOS and Windows download pages today (for legacy and JACK versions respectively).

Reviewer: I keep looking at the list of publicly listed servers. Most are Linux. How do you know most of those are AMD64?

1. Download the [latest headless (amd64) .deb file]({{ site.download_root_link }}{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless }}) (or for Raspberry Pi etc. as above)
1. Make sure you have a current list of standard packages: `sudo apt update`
1. Install the Jamulus package for your architecture, for example: 

	`sudo apt install ./{{ site.download_file_names.deb-headless }}`

1. Enable the headless Server process: 

	`sudo systemctl enable jamulus-headless`

1. Add your desired [command line options](Running-a-Server#configuration) to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file (by default you will be running an Unregistered Server):

	`sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless`

1. Reload the systemd files and restart the headless Server:

	`sudo systemctl daemon-reload && systemctl restart jamulus-headless` 

_To upgrade your Server, just repeat the steps above._

_To amend your Server configuration, just repeat the last two steps above._

---

> ## Server Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Server modes
```

It is one Server in one of 3 modes. But I think there are internal page hyperlinks to this title.

Servers can be run in one of three modes (either at home or on a 3rd party host), depending on your needs.

> ### 1. Unregistered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unregistered
```

> ### Unregistered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unregistered mode
```

This is the default when starting a Server for the first time. Unregistered Servers are not listed by Directories, so only musicians who know your Server's address can connect to it. 

**For information about running an Unregistered Server [see this guide](Unregistered-Servers).**

<figure>
	<img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/diagram-unreg-server.inc %}" loading="lazy" alt="Diagram of connections between Clients within a Jamulus Unregistered Server">
</figure>

> ### 2. Registered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Registered
```

> ### Registered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Registered mode
```

> In this mode your Server will be included in the server list supplied by a Directory. Jamulus has a list of built-in Directories that Clients can know, and if you register your Server with one of these, anyone can then discover and connect to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode your Server will appear in the server list supplied by a Directory. Jamulus Clients come with a list of Directories built-in. If you register your Server with one of these, anyone can discover and connect to it.
```

> You can also have your Server listed by a Custom Directory (see below), if that better meets your requirements.  Clients can then only see your Server if they also know the Custom Directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can list your Server on a Custom Directory (see below).  Clients will only find your Server if they enter the Custom Directory's internet address.
```

> Note that Directories can only register up to 150 Servers. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server becuase the Directory is full, you can try registering on another. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Directories can only register up to 150 Servers. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server because the Directory is full, you can try registering on a different Directory. 
```

<figure>
	<img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/diagram-reg-server.inc %}" loading="lazy" alt="Diagram of connections between Clients within a Jamulus Registered Server">
</figure>

> ### 3. Directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Directory
```

> ### Directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Directory mode
```

If you want to run a number of Servers, possibly also behind a firewall or on a LAN, you may want to run your Server as a Directory. Examples include online events, music associations, sectional rehearsals or music lessons for schools.

For information, [see the Directories guide](Directories).

---

## Configuration options

> Depending on your operating system and how you are running the server, you can set Server options and make them persistent between reloads as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your operating system and how you are running the server, you can set Server options and make them persistent between reloads by following these steps:
```

**For Linux headless** (Debian/Ubuntu using systemd) 

> Add your desired command line options to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file by running `sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless` (You will need to reload the restart for the changes to take effect. See [Installation](#installation))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your desired command line options to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file by running `sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless` (You will need to reload or restart for the changes to take effect. See [Installation](#installation))
```

**For the GUI** (all platforms)

> Any settings made using the graphical interface will be stored in the `Jamulusserver.ini` file (do not attempt to edit this file by hand). However, some options are not available via the GUI and need to be set via the command line. For more information, see [Servers on the desktop](#servers-on-the-desktop)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any settings made using the graphical interface will be stored in the `Jamulusserver.ini` file. (Do **not** edit this file by hand!) However, some options are not available in the GUI and need to be set using the command line. For more information, see [Servers on the desktop](#servers-on-the-desktop)
```

1. Check all is well with `systemctl status jamulus-headless` (hit `q` to get back to the command prompt).
**For Linux headless** (Debian/Ubuntu using systemd) 

You can control Jamulus with the `systemctl` command. For example, to stop the Server cleanly:
Add your desired command line options to the `ExecStart` line in the systemd service file by running `sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless` (You will need to reload the restart for the changes to take effect. See [Installation](#installation))

`sudo systemctl stop jamulus-headless`
**For the GUI** (all platforms)

_To upgrade your Server, just repeat the steps above._
Any settings made using the graphical interface will be stored in the `Jamulusserver.ini` file (do not attempt to edit this file by hand). However, some options are not available via the GUI and need to be set via the command line. For more information, see [Servers on the desktop](#servers-on-the-desktop)

### Configuration
---

#### Running in Registered mode
### Server mode-related options

The following minimum setup is required to [run a Registered Server](Running-a-Server#server-types):
##### `-e or --directoryserver` 

~~~

> jamulus --nogui --server \

Reviewer: Previous steps install and start **jamulus-headless**. This section specifies **jamulus**. But it looks like your changes only speak in terms of jamulus-headless, and controlling it through systemctl. Good. Except I used this little **jamulus --nogui** snippet with these four flags to spin up a server using screen. This snippet got me running fast! Removing it, am I asked to gather up the four CLI --settings involved, and construct the command line within `sudo systemctl edit --full jamulus-headless` ? I think installation should try to get the user running as simply as possible. We have steps that get an UNregistered server going. We should then immediately explain how to make it a registered server. That's what this snippet did for me, so I'm reluctant to give it up.

Author: We're talking about Linux, so yes there's going to be more than one way of doing things :-) This is why the "Configuration options" section start with the words "_Depending on your operating system and how you are running the server, you can set Server options and make them persistent between reloads as follows:_"

The command in question may get you "running as simply as possible", but without understanding what you're doing with it, it's not going to make your life easier :-)

There is a custom with some docs to do have a "quick install" section (eg see Wordpress) which assumes people know what they're doing. The question then is how much info to have without it being a waste of time if (say)  they triumphantly spin up a server and then wonder why nobody can connect to it.

BTW for that matter, there is the school of thought that Jamulus should **only** document directly related Jamulus things - so we'd never mention stuff like `systemctl edit` how to start/stop recording with bash scripts, or even how to install the binary, because we'd assume those things are not worth re-explaining. Something to consider!

Reviewer: My impression from this change is: "We'll get you set up with an unregistered server easy-peasy, but if you want a registered server, sit down and study for a while." We should provide the quick-and-easiest steps to standing up a _registered_ server, which starts with steps for unregistered and then adds a little bit, in step sequence. Maybe that uses systemctl rather than jamulus-headless with those 4 flags, but it results in simplest steps for the people who may not know what they're doing.

Author: We could have a section/page called "Server Installation" or similar that provides the steps to get each of the three modes running (although it's really not complicated - just a matter of a couple of options). But without knowing what the difference is between, say, an unregistered server and a Directory, knowing how to get one running is a bit pointless. For that you need to read the manual. This is why I've structured this PR in the way I have.

BTW what do you mean by "systemctl rather than jamulus-headless with those 4 flags"?

Reviewer: I want the steps to adding a _registered_ server to be nearly mindless, with an extra sentence to explain how to pick a --directoryserver value.  People don't need to know what a Directory server is, and every learning requirement increases friction. If I can't persuade you, that's alright. Later I'll make a PR hill I'm willing to die on, called QuickStart Hill.

I'm still running two servers using line 108-111. I believe the draft only uses systemctl to control the server, which might be fine.

Author: As I said in an earlier comment, there is the option of adding a "quick start" section, but I don't think there'd be much in it (and it would be in danger of repeating information, which repetition we need to avoid for maintenance reasons). And it stands to reason that if you already know what the difference is (and requirements are) between a registered and unregistered Server, then pretty much by definition you won't need a quick start, no? But feel free to give it a go.

On the systemctl thing - we only really support Jamulus headless for systemd based distros, so this is why we use the recommended systemd way of handling Jamulus as a service.

Reviewer: Repeating a sentence or two isn't a danger. I'm my first user here: I want to follow a sequence that results in a running server. And I want everyone to be able to do this with minimal thinking. I bet this draft will reduce server adoption because it adds a study session.

Author: > Repeating a sentence or two isn't a danger. 

It depends what the sentence says :-) 

> And I want everyone to be able to do this with minimal thinking. 

Well, as I say - we can do that (in another PR), but it seems to be a bit of waste of time if it results in people running things they don't properly understand.

Reviewer: I improperly understood directories until about last week. The purpose of engineering is to hide complexity.

Reviewer 2: Were you administering a Directory?

Reviewer: Like 99% of the userbase, I probably never will.

Reviewer 2: In which case, an admin guide isn't what you'd read.

Author: Yes, as noted earlier, I think we'll probably change to "Running a Server".

Reviewer 2: In which case something like

----

## Quick Start
(For simplicity, start with a Server registered with a built in Directory.  Link to elsewhere in the guide for other configurations.  Same for all platforms.)

### Linux on Debian/Ubuntu using the headless .deb

#### Assumptions
...

### Linux Other
...

### Windows
...

### MacOS
...

## Other sections

## ...

----

might well be useful.

Author: There's no material difference between each OS other than headless Linux though (which is just the apt and systemctl commands really). "_Download the installer, run it and double-click the Server icon. Now read the rest of the guide for information about configuration_" doesn't seem to solve a significant problem. Can you provide a bit more detail about what you mean?

Reviewer: What significant problem are you referring to?

I'd like the shortest path to get a new headless Linux server onto a public directory. The current publication provides bash code that lets me enter a **--directoryserver** address that I pick from a table. This PR will require studying the _Server Modes_ sections. I want a QuickStart to conclude before the deep dive begins. Losing lines 108-110 will make me sad. I don't want to study that comprehensive flag reference. I wanna paste in the minimum!

Author: > What significant problem are you referring to?

I don't know - that's why I'm asking.

> I'd like the shortest path to get a new headless Linux server onto a public directory.

That's becuase you know what getting a server onto a public directory means. But for somone who doesn't, there's not a lot of point in a fast track to something they don't understand. 

Do you mean you want a section for people who have already undertood the differences between server modes and the various requirements like port forwarding etc., and just want to be reminded how to run one?

Reviewer: The significant problem is: How can we get the maximum number of people to run headless Linux on a public directory? Or rather, I'd call that a strategic goal. It is valuable to us when people run headless Linux servers on a public directory. It is also an official diagnostic step.

I absolutely do want someone who "doesn't know what getting a server onto a public directory means" to succeed at the task anyway. In fact, we ask them to do so:  "It is highly recommended to test your Server by registering it on one of the built-in Directories first so as to narrow down any subsequent problems in unregistered mode." 

The QuickStart concept might seem odd because it actually tries to explain very little, in contrast to most documentation. [Here's a QuickStart I wrote](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/speech-service/get-started-speech-to-text?tabs=windows%2Cterminal&pivots=programming-language-cli). It's brief! I just want them to press the right buttons and be up and running! Adoption, rather than deep understanding, is the goal.

The QuickStart could conclude with the jamulus-headless bash CLI of lines 108-110. That would be so easy peasy to confirm it's running right. In theory, that would probably postpone the systemctl stuff.

QuickStarts can be very helpful for adoption. They do force us to ask what parts of a task are essential to do and to know. This can seem counterintuitive for documentation. I see how this server installation can be distilled into a QuickStart that we ask all server operators to complete. Perhaps it would merit its own page at some point, but perhaps not. I do wonder what alternative Next Steps such a section would conclude on. Maybe _Start and Stop with systemctl_, _Run an Unregistered Server_ and _Run a Directory_.

Author: I think this is an issue for a separate PR after this one is merged. Marking as resolved for now.

Alternatively, you can list your Server on a Custom Directory (see below).  Clients will only find your Server if they enter the Custom Directory's internet address.

> Note that Directories can only register up to 150 Servers. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server because the Directory is full, you can try registering on a different Directory. 

Reviewer 2: I'm still not comfortable with "registering _on_ a Directory" as a phrase.  "With" feels better.  You don't "go to a party on a friend", you "go to a party with a friend"... ("go to a party" = "register"; "a friend" = "a Directory").
```suggestion
Note that Directories can only register up to 150 Servers. If you see a message that says you cannot register your Server because the Directory is full, you can try registering with a different Directory. 
```

Author: OK will also add that to the style guide if I can remember.

|**Genre Classical/Folk** |`classical.jamulus.io:22524`|
|**Genre Choral/Barbershop** |`choral.jamulus.io:22724`|

##### `-o or --serverinfo` 

> When registering a server on a Directory, this lets you display a server name and location details so that users can then search or sort by these values when connecting to Directories with their client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When registering your Server with a Directory, this lets you supply a server name and location details so that users can then search for these values from their Client.
```
Mmm, don't think you can sort in the client...

This option takes the format: 

`[name];[city];[country as two-letter ISO country code]`

See [two-letter ISO country codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements)

> Note that semicolon and newline characters are not allowed in `name` and `city` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Semicolon and newline characters are not allowed in `name` and `city` values.
```

##### `-L or --licence` 

> Show an agreement window before users can connect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Show an agreement window before users can connect.  The text of the agreement to be shown should be supplied as the `--welcomemessage` (see below).
```

> Show an agreement window before users can connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Show an agreement window before users can connect.  Set the text of the agreement using the `--welcomemessage` parameter (see below).
```

##### `-w or --welcomemessage` 

> Welcome message on connect. Can be given as a string or filename, and can contain HTML.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A "welcome message" to display in the Client chat window on connect. Can be given as a string or filename, and can contain HTML.
```

##### `--serverpublicip` 
The public IP address of the Server if connecting to a Directory behind the same NAT. See [the Directories guide](Directories) for further information.

> ##### `--directoryfile` 

Reviewer 2: Should this be here now?  Move to [the Directories guide](Directories)?

Author: At last a structural comment! :-) I thought about moving these to the Directories guide but then thought maybe if all the options were on one page then people could scan them to get an overview before diving in (a bit like you do with a man page). They also turn up the TOC as convenent list.  

So it's more about the "usability" of the page. I don't think page length is a problem per se.

Reviewer 2: If you want to write a manpage, do that.  Decide what this document represents.  I don't agree it should list the `--help` output.  The title is "Server Admin Guide", for a start -- I'd expect it to be about administering a server.  Ideally it would say "You can run `man Jamulus` (-- if we had one --) to see the man page or `Jamulus --help` for brief help", too...

Author: I certainly don't want to write a manpage (for an audience of less than 5% of our users, I'll leave that to others if they want to keep that updated). And as I've explained in the summary to this PR, I have decided what this document represents  :-) 

"Admin" is intended to mean "how to install, set up and run a server". So I don't mean this page should list the `--help`, I mean that there are typically two stages of use for a help document: the first is where you are new to the system in question, so you want to scan through to see what it can do. The second is where you are familiar with it so you want to go straight to something you want to read about (eg recording). 

The structure of this document is supposed to facilitate both (possibly enabling us to remove the tooltip duplicated help in the app if we wanted). This is why I mention the links in my summary notes, for example (you may have missed my summary notes).

Reviewer: A continuum of user types run servers. Some of them don't know they're admins. Could we banish the words _admin_ and _administration_? For example, this page title might be _Running a Server_. (I want us to banish '-ing' in titling publication-wide, but for now we have that convention.)

This page aggregates conceptual, procedural, and reference content into one page. I support this pattern up to a point, as it can aid discovery and maintenance. I also accept that reference might be aggregated into 4 buckets: _Server mode-related options_, _General Server options_, _Recording_, and _Other options_. I think this page should be two pages, _Server Guide_ and _Server Reference_, or one page in those two sections. I'd like to present CLI reference sections consistently (and I'm [cheering for table with style tweaks](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/pull/877#issuecomment-1336112230)), with all reference content appearing in the same section (last on the page), or on its own page. I find it reassuring as an operator when I can find an at-a-glance CLI reference that aspires to be comprehensive. At minimum, if inline reference had a consistent and recognizable visual presentation (such as a table), the user would find all the reference coverage on the page.

Author: No problem with "Running a Server" as a title. 

If you want to re-structure it into Server Guide and Server Reference, then it would be good to know why you think that's better than my (or the current) take.  I've structured it according to **usage**, as opposed to content type because I wanted to avoid having to repeat content (or have readers bounce from one place to the other) in order that they can put together all the info to set up, say, an Unregistered Server or Recording.

But all that would be for a separate PR. Not for this one.

_Directories only:_ Remember registered Servers even if the Directory is restarted. See [the Directories guide](Directories) for further information.

> ##### `-f or --listfilter` 

Reviewer 2: As above

Author: See https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/pull/877#discussion_r1035328241

> _Directories only:_ Whitelist Servers registering on the Server. See [the Directories guide](Directories) for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Directories only:_ Allowlist Servers registering on the Server. See [the Directories guide](Directories) for further information.
```

---

### General Server options
These options can be used regardless of which mode your server is running in (although some may not be relevant for Directories).

##### `-d or --discononquit` 

> Normally, when a Server is stopped or restarted, any Clients that have not used their “Disconnect” buttons will re-establish connection when the Server comes back up again. Using this option forces Clients to manually re-establish their connections to the Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, when a Server is stopped or restarted, any Clients that have not pressed their **Disconnect** buttons will automatically re-establish the connection when the Server returns. This option forces Clients to manually re-establish their connections to the Server in this scenario.
```

##### `-F or --fastupdate` 

> Reduces latency if Clients connect with “Enable Small Network Buffers” option. Requires faster CPU to avoid dropouts, and more bandwidth to enabled Clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reduces latency if Clients connect with **Enable Small Network Buffers** option. Requires faster CPU to avoid dropouts, and more bandwidth to enabled Clients.
```

##### `-l or --log` 
Enable logging, set path and file name

> ##### `-m or --htmlstatus` 

Reviewer 2: I think this should be tagged as deprecated.  Last time it was reviewed, I was the only person who said it should stay - with a view to moving off it - and now I've moved.

Author: Looks like @mcfnord just did.

> Enable HTML status file, set path and file name

Reviewer: **Note:** This feature is deprecated, and may disappear in a future release.

> Enable HTML status file, set path and file name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable HTML status file, set path and file name

**Note:** This feature is deprecated, and may disappear in a future release.
```

##### `-P or --delaypan` 

> Start with delay panning enabled.This option uses small differences in sound arrival time between the two ears. It produces a stereo effect similar to natural human hearing when compared to normal “volume” panning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with delay panning enabled. This option uses small differences in sound arrival time between the two ears. It produces a stereo effect similar to natural human hearing when compared to normal “volume” panning.
```

##### `-s` or `--server`
Start Jamulus in Server mode

##### `--serverbindip` 

> Specify the IP address the Jamulus process will bind to

Reviewer 2: This needs explaining or a link to an explanation.

```suggestion
Specify the IP address the Jamulus process will bind to.

Normally, Jamulus will listen on "all addresses" for a host server.  Where the host has multiple network addresses, this option allows one of the addresses to be chosen.
```

Reviewer: _Chosen_, or _specified_.

Author: Why is "all addresses" in inverted commas though?

##### `-T or --multithreading` 

> Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs to support more Clients

Reviewer 2: Mm.  Probably want nice punctuation throughout the manual, rather than the brief form in the software...

Author: Not sure I understand. What do you mean by "brief form"?

Reviewer 2: The form used in `--help`.  The basis of this file was just to list the content of the server `--help` output with almost no additional content.  That's pretty useless on its own.  As a _bare minimum_, I think this file should have correct language semantics (i.e. sentence structure and punctuation) where, perhaps, the `--help` output has aimed to be a "reminder".

And I do consider the above a _structural_ comment, rather than about _content_.  It's about setting the tone of the document and will affect future expansion / updates.

Author: OK if there's stylistic stuff in here that you want to change, then feel free to suggest that. I wasn't planning that in this PR but no matter as I think most of it has been changed now!

Author: BTW don't forget we have this (which is made up of the include files in use in the docs) https://jamulus.io/wiki/Command-Line-Options because we used to have a standalone file for them originally and wanted to keep it for search engines. Dunno if that's useful/relevant in the context of this PR though.

Reviewer 2: It's relevant in as much as its content shouldn't be repeated.  Saying "Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs to support more Clients" isn't really explanatory or useful to a server administrator -- it doesn't help them
- find out if it applies to them - i.e. how to determine how many cores they have
- judge the pros and cons of usage
- understand the threading model used in Jamulus and thus how best to configure Jamulus core priorities, etc.

All of those would need explaining in a "Server Admin Guide".  Like I say, as this is _just_ a "re-structure", I'm not asking for all that to be done _now_.  What I am asking for is that corrections to sentence structure. including correct punctuation, are done to make the page look more "reviewed and professional" rather than just something "chucked together".

Author: This PR links the server options on that page to the admin guide, so it's not repeated.

And yes (and as per my summary notes) I am in this guide combining the options with the context of use and "supporting information" such as we have it right now (which sometimes we don't have enough as per your example). 

I think if you look at the changes I've committed from @mcfnord in this PR though, a lot of the suggestions he's made have been more "reviewed and professional".

But overall, this PR is about making the content we have into a more logical usage-based structure. It was as you originally said, too scattered around before.

Reviewer: I consider the first sentence of a reference description to be nearly holy. It should summarize the feature effectively but concisely, with punctuation a close second concern. If a reference has a poor first sentence, the whole section is broken. If a reference _only_ has one accurate, adequate sentence, that could be sufficient for a V1.

Reviewer 2: >  It should summarize the feature effectively but concisely

I consider this what the `--help` output is for.  The manual should provide additional details.  As it stands, the example here neither summarises the feature effectively - that would be achieved by something like "allows the use of multiple threads, where available, when mixing client audio" - nor is it properly punctuated.  (However, that suggestion also changes content, which is out of scope.)

Author: No probs - about 50 of its 53 commits on this PR are wording related, so I think we can change this :-)

> Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs to support more Clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs. This setting can support more Clients.
```

Author: Bit of an unsafe use of the word "mode" here perhaps as we use it mainly in the context of server type (eg "Registered mode")

> Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs to support more Clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use multithreading (if available) to use multi-core CPUs when mixing Client audio. This feature can increase the number of Clients the server can support.
```

I doubt _faltering_ is in our terminology list. How do we describe the condition of a server failing to mix Client audio fast enough?

Author: "Support" sort of implies maintaining the integrity of the signal here, so I'd just leave it it at that.

Reviewer: By default, a server has a max of 10 connections. Can this feature increase the number of connections a server can support?

Author: I guess that is ambiguous then. How about "... may help the Server support more Clients. See also `--numchannels`."

##### `-u or --numchannels` 
Maximum number of channels (Clients)

##### `-z or --startminimized` 

> Start the graphicial user interface minimized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start the Jamulus Server graphical user interface in the minimized window state.
```

Author: This would be for the Server UI, not the Client.

---

## Other options

{% include_relative Include-Shared-Commands.md %}

---

> ## Recording

Reviewer 2: Maybe this could all go into a separate file?  I'm not sure how commonly used it is.  Just to cut down the content.  (Like there's a Directory guide, I was thinking.)

Author: Thought about that, but my thoughts are above re. the options associated with it: https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/pull/877#discussion_r1035328241

##### `-R or --recording` 

> Set server recording directory; Server will record when a session is active by default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set server recording directory. By default, the Server will record when a session is active. 
```

> **Note:** You will need to save recordings to a path _outside_ of the jamulus home Directory, or remove `ProtectHome=true` from your systemd unit file (be aware that doing so is however a potential security risk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** You will need to save recordings to a path _outside_ of the jamulus home Directory, or remove `ProtectHome=true` from your systemd unit file (but be aware that doing this could be a security risk).
```

Recordings are per track in [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/) `.lof` format and [REAPER](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/REAPER) `.rpp`. Open the respective files to listen to them in those applications.

> Note that when your Server is recording, Clients will display a message that recording is on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** When your Server is recording, Clients display a red banner message that the session is being recorded.
```

##### `--norecord` 
Set server not to record by default when recording is configured.

### Controlling Recording

> Recording starts once the first person connects to the Server, and stops when the last person leaves. 

Reviewer: Would that result in one fileset, and would another person's entrance start a new recording fileset?

Author: No, I think you'd need to issue an explict restart of the recording for that.

> If the Server receives a SIGUSR1 signal during a recording, it will start a new recording in a new Directory. SIGUSR2 will toggle recording on/off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Server receives a SIGUSR1 signal during a recording, it will start a new recording in a new directory. SIGUSR2 will toggle recording on/off.
```

Our Capital-D Directory is something different.

To send these signals using systemd, create the following two `.service` files in `/etc/systemd/system`, calling them something appropriate (e.g. `jamulusTogglerec.service`).

> For turning recording on or off (depending on the current state):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To turn recording on or off (depending on the current state):
```

In general, avoid 'ing' in favor of the word without it. This also applies to titles, but that's a publication-wide concern.

~~~
 [Unit]
 Description=Toggle recording state of Jamulus Server
 Requisite=Jamulus-Server

 [Service]
 Type=oneshot
 ExecStart=/bin/systemctl kill -s SIGUSR2 Jamulus-Server
~~~

> For starting a new recording:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a new recording:
```

~~~
 [Unit]
 Description=Toggle recording state of Jamulus Server
 Requisite=Jamulus-Server

 [Service]
 Type=oneshot
 ExecStart=/bin/systemctl kill -s SIGUSR2 Jamulus-Server
~~~

For starting a new recording:

~~~
 [Unit]
 Description=Start a new recording on Jamulus Server
 Requisite=Jamulus-Server

 [Service]
 Type=oneshot
 ExecStart=/bin/systemctl kill -s SIGUSR1 Jamulus-Server
~~~

_Note: The Jamulus service name in the `ExecStart` line needs to be the same as the `.service` file name you created when setting systemd to control your Jamulus Server. So in this example it would be `Jamulus-Server.service`_

Run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to register them for first use.

Now you can run these with the `systemctl` command, for example:

`sudo systemctl start jamulusTogglerec` 

You can see the result of these commands if you run `systemctl status jamulus`, or by viewing the logs.

---

## Servers on the desktop

Jamulus can be run in Server mode from the desktop. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings. To do this, first [install Jamulus](Getting-Started) for your platform, the do one of the following:

> * **Windows users** - Use the "Jamulus Server" icon in the Windows Start menu. If you want the Server to start automatically on system start, enable the corresponding check box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Windows users** - Use the "Jamulus Server" icon in the Windows Start menu. If you want the Server to start automatically when you start Windows, check the box for this option.
```

 `"C:\Program Files\Jamulus\Jamulus.exe" --serverbindip 192.168.0.100`

For macOS, start a Terminal window and run Jamulus with the desired options like this:

 `/Applications/Jamulus.app/Contents/MacOS/Jamulus --serverbindip 192.168.0.100`

**Note** Command line options will set the Server’s defaults at startup. You can override them with their corresponding GUI controls while the Server is running.

### The Server status icon

When a Server is running in GUI mode, the operating system will show an icon in the system tray or status area that indicates whether the Server is active:  

<figure><img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/server-inactive.inc %}" style="float:left; margin-right:10px;" loading="lazy" alt="Image of the Jamulus Server icon"></figure> The Server is empty

<figure><img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/server-active.inc %}" style="float:left; margin-right:10px;" loading="lazy" alt="Image of the Jamulus Server icon"></figure> The Server is occupied

---

## Backing up the Server

{% include_relative Include-Backing-Up.md %}

> - Headless Servers do not use `.ini` files. All configuration is given as command line options. If you are running a server in GUI mode, it will store its configuration (after reading any command line options on start) in the file `Jamululsserver.ini`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Headless Servers do not use `.ini` files. All configuration is given as command line options. If you are running a server in GUI mode, it will store its configuration (after reading any command line options on start) in the `Jamululsserver.ini` file.
```

**Note:** This feature is deprecated, and may disappear in a future release.

##### `-P or --delaypan` 
Start with delay panning enabled. This option uses small differences in sound arrival time between the two ears. It produces a stereo effect similar to natural human hearing when compared to normal “volume” panning.

##### `-s` or `--server`
Start Jamulus in Server mode

##### `--serverbindip` 
Specify the IP address the Jamulus process will bind to. 

Normally, Jamulus will listen on all IP addresses on the host machine.  Where the host has multiple network addresses, this option allows one of the addresses to be chosen.

##### `-T or --multithreading` 
Use multithreading to make better use of multi-core CPUs. This setting may help the Server support more Clients. See also `--numchannels`

##### `-u or --numchannels` 
Maximum number of channels (Clients)

##### `-z or --startminimized` 
Start the Jamulus Server graphical user interface in the minimized window state.

### Other options

{% include_relative Include-Shared-Commands.md %}

---

## Recording

##### `-R or --recording` 
Set server recording directory. By default, the Server will record when a session is active. 

> **Note:** You will need to save recordings to a path _outside_ of the jamulus home Directory, or remove `ProtectHome=true` from your systemd unit file (but be aware that doing could be a security risk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** You will need to save recordings to a path _outside_ of the jamulus home directory, or remove `ProtectHome=true` from your systemd unit file, but be aware that doing could be a security risk.
```

Reviewer: is the default directory `jamulus` with no capitalization?

Reviewer 2: That's down to the contributed `.deb` installer on Linux.  I think it's `Jamulus` elsewhere.

To send these signals using systemd, create the following two `.service` files in `/etc/systemd/system`, calling them something appropriate (e.g. `jamulusTogglerec.service`).

To turn recording on or off (depending on the current state):

~~~
 [Unit]
 Description=Toggle recording state of Jamulus Server
 Requisite=Jamulus-Server

 [Service]
 Type=oneshot
 ExecStart=/bin/systemctl kill -s SIGUSR2 Jamulus-Server
~~~

To start a new recording:

~~~
 [Unit]
 Description=Start a new recording on Jamulus Server
 Requisite=Jamulus-Server

 [Service]
 Type=oneshot
 ExecStart=/bin/systemctl kill -s SIGUSR1 Jamulus-Server
~~~

_Note: The Jamulus service name in the `ExecStart` line needs to be the same as the `.service` file name you created when setting systemd to control your Jamulus Server. So in this example it would be `Jamulus-Server.service`_

Run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to register them for first use.

Now you can run these with the `systemctl` command, for example:

`sudo systemctl start jamulusTogglerec` 

You can see the result of these commands if you run `systemctl status jamulus`, or by viewing the logs.

---

## Servers on the desktop

> Jamulus can be run in Server mode from the desktop. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings. To do this, first [install Jamulus](Getting-Started) for your platform, the do one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jamulus can run in Server mode in the graphical environment of your home computer. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings. To do this, first [install Jamulus](Getting-Started) for your platform, the do one of the following:
```

Reviewer 2: > desktop computer

This doesn't mean what "from your desktop" is intended to mean.  A "desktop computer" is used to mean something other than a phone, tablet, laptop or server.  Here, the manual is referring to a GUI - regardless of the computer platform.

Reviewer: How about _on your local computer_? Or _home computer_?

Reviewer 2: Not all computers running at home have a GUI environment.  For years I didn't bother installing X on my Linux box as I only used it to run command line applications.  Some people run Raspberry Pis now in a similar configuration, to keep the install size down.  Also, I run Jamulus in Server mode with the GUI remotely, from my server, using remote X - Jamulus is on a server machine running a desktop UI, the remote X client is on my desktop machine running a desktop UI.

The phrase needs to be explicit in what it means: you need a graphical desktop environment installed on your OS - whether running locally on your desktop or remotely - to run Jamulus Server with a GUI.

Reviewer: Microsoft also [suggests graphical environment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/o/operating-environment-operating-system).

Reviewer: I spent ten years using text-based computers exclusively. I like _home computer_. Sometimes technical writing can sacrifice precision to better reach a key audience. I'd like to be very clear here that running a server locally is something you can do "at home".

Reviewer 2: > Jamulus can run in Server mode in the graphical environment of your home computer. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings

That sounds good to me.  Then, subsequently, "It can also be run from the command line of your home computer without the graphical environment being needed." can be stated, with a reference to the appropriate docs.

Reviewer: What motivates someone to run without the GUI on a graphical environment? Multiple parallel instances of the server?

Reviewer 2: I'd generally run the server without the GUI if I were running it "permanently".  Spinning up a server for ad hoc use, probably I'd use the GUI.  I don't know about actual cases, though.

* **Windows users** - Use the "Jamulus Server" icon in the Windows Start menu. If you want the Server to start automatically when you start Windows, check the box for this option.

* **macOS users** - Double-click the "Jamulus Server" icon in Applications.

* **Linux users** - Launch the "Jamulus Server" shortcut. Or you can open a terminal window (`CTRL+ALT+t` on Debian and related distros), type `jamulus -s` and hit return.

While most common functions in Jamulus can be set using the GUI, others can only be set using options given in a terminal window when the server is launched. Exactly how you do this will depend on your operating system.

For example on Windows, to use a specific settings file, right-click on the Jamulus shortcut and choose **Properties** > **Target**. Add the necessary arguments to Jamulus.exe:

 `"C:\Program Files\Jamulus\Jamulus.exe" --serverbindip 192.168.0.100`

For macOS, start a Terminal window and run Jamulus with the desired options like this:

 `/Applications/Jamulus.app/Contents/MacOS/Jamulus --serverbindip 192.168.0.100`

> **Note** Command line options will set the Server’s defaults at startup. You can override them with their corresponding GUI controls while the Server is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** Command line options will set the Server’s defaults at startup. You can override them while the Server is running using their corresponding GUI controls.
```

### The Server status icon

> When a Server is running in GUI mode, the operating system will show an icon in the system tray or status area that indicates whether the Server is active:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Server is running in GUI mode, the operating system will show an icon in the system tray or status area that indicates whether the Server has connections:  
```

<figure><img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/server-inactive.inc %}" style="float:left; margin-right:10px;" loading="lazy" alt="Image of the Jamulus Server icon"></figure> The Server is empty

<figure><img src="{% include img/en-screenshots/server-active.inc %}" style="float:left; margin-right:10px;" loading="lazy" alt="Image of the Jamulus Server icon"></figure> The Server is occupied

---

## Backing up the Server

{% include_relative Include-Backing-Up.md %}

> - Headless Servers do not use `.ini` files. All configuration is given as command line options. If you are running a server in GUI mode, it will store its configuration (after reading any command line options on start) in the `Jamululsserver.ini` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Headless Servers do not use `.ini` files. All configuration is given as command line options. If you are running a server in GUI mode, after reading any command line options on start, it will store its configuration in the `Jamululsserver.ini` file.
```

## Servers on the desktop

> Jamulus can run in Server mode in the graphical environment of your home computer. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings. To do this, first [install Jamulus](Getting-Started) for your platform, the do one of the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jamulus can run in Server mode in the graphical environment of a computer. This gives you a graphical user interface to control most of the settings. To do this, first [install Jamulus](Getting-Started) for your platform, the do one of the following:
```
